---
title: "Romans"
headline: "Romans - headline"
excerpt: "A thorough study of the book of Romans from chapter 1 through 11. Chapters 12-16 are left to readers to study for themselves."
image: 
  feature: Romans.jpg
  teaser: Romans-teaser.png
  thumb: romans-thumb.png
tags: [romans, bible-studies]
featured: true
work: "Law vs. Grace"
modified:
feature:
  category: bible-studies
comments: true
comments_locked: false
---

{% include bible-study/romans-study-notes %}
{% include bible-study/romans-chapters %}

{{ page.excerpt | markdownify }}

[(<em>Bấm vào đây để đọc tiếng Việt</em>)]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies-Viet/2015-01-17-Ro-ma %})

## New verse-by-verse study of Romans (11/15/2022)

Our Sunday School class has just started studying Romans, so in the coming weeks, there will be a new study recap for the verses we cover each Sunday.

##  [<u>Romans 1:1-16</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2022-11-13-Romans-01-v01-16 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: Paul was called to be an apostle. The promised gospel. The obedience of faith. Paul's debt. Not ashamed of the gospel.

##  [<u>Romans 1:17-32</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2022-11-13-Romans-01-v17-32 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: Living by faith. Condemnation of the unrighteous.

##  [<u>Romans 2:1-11</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2022-11-13-Romans-02-v1-11 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: You must also judge yourself. Hypocrisy. God’s kindness leads to repentance. The law 101.

##  [<u>Romans 2:12-29</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2022-11-13-Romans-02-v12-29 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: Gentile sinners. Don't just hear, do. A false sense of righteousness. Law 101.

##  [<u>Romans 3:1-9</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2022-11-13-Romans-03-v01-09 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: Israel as God's channel of peace. I'm speaking in human terms. All under sin.

##  [<u>Romans 3:10-31</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2022-11-13-Romans-03-v10-31 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: No one righteous. Every mouth silenced. Justified freely apart from the law. Where, then, is boasting? We uphold the law.

##  [<u>Romans 4:1-5</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2022-11-13-Romans-04-v01-05 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: According to the flesh. Law & boasting. It’s enough to believe. Grace vs. works.

##  [<u>Romans 4:5-13</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2022-11-13-Romans-04-v05-13 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: Declaring the ungodly righteous. True blessing. Blessing apart from the law. Father of all those who believe.

##  [<u>Romans 4:14-15</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2022-11-13-Romans-04-v14-15 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: Law, faith, and promise. Law, wrath, and transgression.

##  [<u>Romans 4:16-18</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2022-11-13-Romans-04-v16-18 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: Certainty of the promise. To make the dead alive. Abraham’s faith.

##  [<u>Romans 4:19-24</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2022-11-13-Romans-04-v19-24 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: Who do you have faith in? Righteousness based on faith. For everyone who believes.

##  [<u>Romans 4:25-5:5</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2022-11-13-Romans-04-v25-ch05-v05 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: Why did Christ die? The hope of God’s glory. From sufering to hope. True hope.

##  [<u>Romans 5:5-10</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2022-11-13-Romans-05-v05-10 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: Why the Spirit was given. While we were still sinners.

##  [<u>Romans 5:11-21</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2022-11-13-Romans-05-v11-21 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: By one man. Law and transgression.

##  [<u>Romans 6:1-11</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2022-11-13-Romans-06-v01-11 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: By one man. Law and transgression.

##  [<u>Romans 6:12-14</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2022-11-13-Romans-06-v12-14 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: Do not let sin reign. You are not under law. The truth will set you free.

##  [<u>Romans 6:15-23</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2022-11-13-Romans-06-v15-23 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: Shall we sin? You are slaves of the one you obey. Present your members. Those things. Freedom from sin. The payoff of sin.

##  [<u>Romans 7:1-6</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2022-11-13-Romans-07-v01-06 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: As long as he lives. If her husband dies. You also died to the law. Sins aroused by the law. The new law: life of the Spirit.

##  [<u>Romans 7:7-25</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2022-11-13-Romans-07-v07-25 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: The role of the law. Misuse of the law. Nothing good lives in me. Who will rescue me?

##  [<u>Romans 8:1-8</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2022-11-13-Romans-08-v01-08 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: No condemnation. The law weakened by the flesh. Flesh vs. Spirit.

##  [<u>Romans 8:9-13</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2022-11-13-Romans-08-v09-13 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: In the flesh. Your body is dead. To whom do you owe your obligations?

##  [<u>Romans 8:14-23</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2022-11-13-Romans-08-v14-23 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: Led by the Spirit. Spirit of slavery vs. adoption. The Spirit’s voice. Suffering with Christ. Present suffering.

##  [<u>Romans 8:24-39</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2022-11-13-Romans-08-v24-39 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: Hope for what we do not see. Inexpressible groanings. All things work together. If God is for us.

##  [<u>Romans 9:1-8</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2022-11-13-Romans-09-v01-08 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: God’s special people. True descendants.

##  [<u>Romans 9:9-29</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2022-11-13-Romans-09-v09-29 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: God’s calling vs human efforts. God’s sovereignty. My thoughts are not your thoughts.

##  [<u>Romans 9:30-10:21</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2022-11-13-Romans-09-v30-10-21 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: The two kinds of righteousness. Zeal that is based on the truth. Salvation is near. A disobedient people.

## First writing of Romans study (2015)

What Paul wrote in this book of Romans is frequently misunderstood, or regarded with suspicion, that it gives folks a license to sin. This is not what Romans 3:20 said. For all practical intents and purposes, it says you will not get any closer to God by doing good, or be driven further from God by doing bad, because the law is only meant to show how sinful you are. It's an x-ray into your heart to show its utter depravity. It does not heal you, or give you life.

When a true Christian, one who relies on nothing but the cross of Christ, is motivated by the indwelling Spirit of God to do good, or to refrain from evil, he does so not because of any law that tells him of the do's and dont's. Christians have a choice that they must make: rely on the strength of the flesh to carry out what is required by the law, or walk by faith, by the simple trust, or rest, in Christ who has a plan for all his do's or dont's. Christian leaders must be careful not to use guilt -powered by the law- to stir up the flesh.

Below is a summary of each chapter of Romans. Please click on the Chapter XX link to navigate to the study of the entire chapter.

##  [<u>Chapter 1</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2015-05-20-Romans-Chapter-01 %})

Obedience of faith is the willingness to base one's salvation entirely on Christ. Salvation is to everyone who believes. God revealed the gospel from faith to faith. All have sinned and fallen short of God's glory. The creation being a witness in chapter 1 is repeated in chapter 10 "Their voice has gone out into all the earth." It's the heavens who preach.

##  [<u>Chapter 2</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2015-05-19-Romans-Chapter-02 %})

All men are under judgement. Lawkeepers are judgemental, and they will be judged by the very law they uphold. God's kindness that leads you to repentance. Unrepentance = not submitting to salvation through Christ. All will be judged according to the law or to grace. All Gentiles who live under the moral law in their hearts are condemned. All Jews under Mosaic Law are condemned.

##  [<u>Chapter 3</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2015-05-18-Romans-Chapter-03 %})

The Jews were entrusted with the oracles of God. God's righteousness abides even as those that call themselves by His name fail in every way. God's grace is unfathomable against the backdrop of man's wretchedness. All men are under condemnation. The law's purpose is to convict all men of sin. Preach grace and you'll be accused of promoting sins. No one can be justified by the works of the law. God's righteousness for all who believe. Justified freely. Since salvation is by grace and through faith, there can be no boasting. Preach faith and you will be accused of trying to nullify the law.

##  [<u>Chapter 4</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2015-05-17-Romans-Chapter-04 %})

Boasting is the characteristic of those that rely on the law. Those that do not work, but believe in Christ is considered righteous. Rightousness is credited apart from works. God will never count the sins of those that believe ever again. Abraham was called righteous even before he was circumcised. Dead faith belongs to the one who relies on the law to get right with God.  God's promise is only voided if you rely on the law to get right with Him. The law only brings wrath. In conclusion, righteousness is by grace through faith only.

##  [<u>Chapter 5</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2015-05-16-Romans-Chapter-05 %})

Faith: access to God's grace and peace. Rejoice in sufferings. God demonstrates His love for us. Reconciliation with God. Saved by Christ's life. Death spreads to all. The Gift by the Grace of God. The reigns of sin vs. grace.

##  [<u>Chapter 6</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2015-05-15-Romans-Chapter-06 %})

We already died to sin. Old self already crucified with Christ. Died through Christ, now live through Christ. Sin is powerless because you're not under law, but under grace.

##  [<u>Chapter 7</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2015-05-14-Romans-Chapter-07 %})

The master/slave relationship with the law. Released from one to marry another. To bear fruit to God: die to the law. Law/death vs. Spirit/life. The law reveals sin. The commandment brought death, not life. Men's utter helplessness. We need WHO, not HOW.

##  [<u>Chapter 8</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2015-05-13-Romans-Chapter-08 %})

No more condemnation. The new law sets us free from the old law. True meaning of walking after the flesh. Where is the focus of your faith? Who walks after the flesh? The spirit lives but the flesh is dead. The Spirit gives life. The debt of the flesh is fully paid. Do not rely on the flesh to achieve God's righteousness. Sealed by the Spirit.  Peace in Christ. Suffering with Christ--the true meaning. Waiting for the day of deliverance from the bondage of decay. The Spirit prays for us. Those who are called by God. God's love is undefeatable.

##  [<u>Chapter 9</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2015-05-12-Romans-Chapter-09 %})

Israel, the chosen people. Born of flesh / Born of the promise. The sovereignty of God through Jacob and Esau. The sovereignty of God through Pharaoh. The sovereignty of God shown through the clay and the potter illustration. God's sovereign choice in wrath or mercy. Many are chosen but few are saved. God's righteousness is only available through faith.

##  [<u>Chapter 10</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2015-05-11-Romans-Chapter-10 %})

Do not seek own righteousness. Seeking righteousness through the law is a vain pursuit. Righteousness through Christ is very near. The good news, preaching, and belief. The forgotten gospel.

##  [<u>Chapter 11</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/Romans/2015-05-10-Romans-Chapter-11 %})

The remnant - God's way of selection. Saved by grace. The law ensnares those who rely on it.

