---
title: "Gospel of John"
headline: "Gospel of John From the New Covenant perspective"
excerpt: "A verse-by-verse study of the gospel of John"
image: 
  feature: John-gospel.jpg
  teaser: John-teaser.jpg
  thumb: john-epistles-thumb.png
tags: [john-gospel, bible-studies]
featured: true
work: "The gospel of John"
modified:
feature:
  category: bible-studies
comments: true
comments_locked: false
---

{% include toc.html %}

{{ page.excerpt | markdownify }}

[(<em>Bấm vào đây để đọc tiếng Việt</em>)]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies-Viet/2023-07-02-Giang %})



##  [<u>John 1:1-32</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/John/2023-07-02-John-01-v01-32 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: In the beginning. A testament to the light. Born by God. Grace and truth. Law vs grace&truth. He has made God known. Jesus revealed.

##  [<u>John 1:33</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/John/2023-07-02-John-01-v33 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: Baptism with the Holy Spirit.

##  [<u>John 1:34-51</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/John/2023-07-02-John-01-v34-51 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: Jesus knows me and you.

##  [<u>John 2:1-25</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/John/2023-07-02-John-02-v01-25 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: Jesus’ first miracle. God’s house as marketplace? Jesus’ body as God’s temple. Man’s testimony.

##  [<u>John 3:1-8</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/John/2023-07-02-John-03-v01-08 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: You must be born from above. The effect of the wind.

##  [<u>John 3:9-21</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/John/2023-07-02-John-03-v09-21 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: Earthly and heavenly things. The serpent in the wilderness. Condemnation and salvation. This is the basis for judging.

##  [<u>John 3:22-36</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/John/2023-07-02-John-03-v22-36 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: Ceremonial vs. true washing. I am not the Christ. The word of God. The basis for judging.

##  [<u>John 4:1-22</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/John/2023-07-02-John-04-v01-22 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: The water that I will give. Secret revealed. New place of worship. You worship what you do not know.

##  [<u>John 4:23-34</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/John/2023-07-02-John-04-v23-34 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: Worship in spirit and truth. Identifying the Messiah. Jesus’ food.

##  [<u>John 4:35-54</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/John/2023-07-02-John-04-v35-54 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: White for harvest. One sows and another reaps. Hear and know for yourselves. Prophet in own country. Healing faith?

## [<u>John 5:1-47</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/John/2023-07-02-John-05-v01-47 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: Healing at Bethesda. Hearing Jesus’ voice. What have you done? God’s own testimony. Scriptures testify about Jesus. Hope misplaced.

## [<u>John 6:1-71</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/John/2023-07-02-John-06-v01-71 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: Five loaves and two fish. Worldly pursuit. The work God requires. Bread of life.

## [<u>John 7:1-53</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/John/2023-07-02-John-07-v01-53 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: My time has not yet arrived. Honor of God. The highest law. Where I am you cannot come. Rivers of living water.

## [<u>John 8:1-59</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/John/2023-07-02-John-08-v01-59 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: The law says. Standard for judgement. Knowing God. You will die in your sin. You are from below. When Jesus is lifted up. Sin and freedom. Jesus’ teaching. Before Abraham, I am.

## [<u>John 9:1-41</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/John/2023-07-02-John-09-v01-41 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: Whose sin is it? The light of the world. Faulty reasoning. Whose disciple are you? Faulty reasoning. Spiritual blindness.

## [<u>John 10:1-42</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/John/2023-07-02-John-10-v01-42 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: The doorkeeper. Thieves and robbers. Who is the hired hand? Other sheep. The sin of blasphemy.

## [<u>John 11:1-57</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/John/2023-07-02-John-11-v01-57 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: Sickness not unto death. Day vs. night. Do you believe this?

## [<u>John 12:1-50</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/John/2023-07-02-John-12-v01-50 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: And can it be? In hindsight. Love not the world. The judgement. Walk in the light. Blinded and hardened. Praise from men. Believe = in the light. His commandment is eternal life.

## [<u>John 13:1-38</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/John/2023-07-02-John-13-v01-38 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: Feet washing. Entered by Satan. When Jesus is glorified. The new commandment. Lay down your life?

## [<u>John 14:1-31</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/John/2023-07-02-John-14-v01-31 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: A place for you. Knowing God. Show us the Father. Ask me anything. If you obey my commandments.

## [<u>John 15:1-27</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/John/2023-07-02-John-15-v01-27 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: Bear fruit.

## [<u>John 16:1-33</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/John/2023-07-02-John-16-v01-33 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: "Persecution. When the Spirit comes. The second coming. Whatever you ask."

## [<u>John 17:1-26</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/John/2023-07-02-John-17-v01-26 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: "Jesus’ glory. Knowing God. Jesus’ work. Belonging to God. None was lost. Sanctified by the Word."

## [<u>John 18:1-40</u>]({{ site.url }}{% post_url bible-studies/John/2023-07-02-John-18-v01-40 %})

The key concepts gathered from the study of this passage: Not one is lost.

